So with that, let's actually kind of jump
in to the initial project that we have.
Let's talk about how to
actually write a story, right?
Cool, So
we've got this repo,
it's based on a design system
called anthology because I looked for
synonyms for the story.
I tried to come up with a cute name.
So we can pnpm,
if you haven't already done that,
I already have that in place or
npm install.
Cool, and
you'll see it opens up on 6006 as well.
And my biggest issue other than the fact
that we still have the URL from the old
Storybook is I don't have any
stories in my Storybook, right?
So we should fix that, and so
we can go ahead and do that.
I feel like the initial
first piece of any given
component system is the button, right?
And buttons are interesting,
because on one hand, you're like a button.
That's easy, I can make a button.
On the other hand, this isn't even
all of the buttons that we have in
our design system in our app,
there's also gradient buttons.
There's extra round deep buttons.
There's buttons that have
menus that poke out of them.
There's buttons at
the end of input fields.
The number of buttons that you find in
a design system is kind of insane, right?
And then you add in dark mode, and next
we're gonna work on high contrast mode and
all of those things, and then you start
to multiply that several times over.
The hardest one, the worst one
is an input field, by the way.
You think buttons have
too many permutations,
input fields are another fun one.
We have some of those in this little
mini design system as well, but
I think the button is a really, really
great case study to start out with here.
So let's go take a look, and I have some
boilerplate things that we'll use later.
But right now this is my button, right?
There's no stories for this button.
This is presently my button.
It takes some props,
which are currently set to any, and
it spreads those props over
the HTML button, right?
And so we have two missions here that
we need to kinda do at the same time,
which is one, actually make a real button.
And two, we are going to start
writing some stories around it.
We'll do number two first, because that's
the kinda theme we're working on today.
So the first thing we can do
is we can create a new file.
We can call it button.stories.tsx.
Obviously, if you are using Svelte,
it's not .tsx, or
jsx, or what have you,
that point is actually just ts or js.
For vue, it is a .vue, so on and so forth.
The dot stories is the part
that theoretically matters.
One of the things that gets created
when you run the npx storybook@latest
net is it adds package.json,
puts the scripts in there.
It puts some initial stories that annoy me
every time in there, so on and so forth.
But it also creates some files in
this .storybook directory as well,
and these are your configuration files.
Out of the box, it will also
see if you're using Webpack or
Vite, it's pretty smart about setting
everything up for you as well.
So that .stories, right, theoretically,
if you need a different extension or
something along those lines,
you can tweak and customize anything.
This is just what it gives you by
default starting out, which I mean,
it's reasonable to me.
But if you are migrating from some other
system or something along those lines,
you can tweak this to
your heart's content.
So it's gonna look for
any MDX files anywhere in our repository.
And then anything that ends
with .stories.pick your
favorite file extension as you go along.
So if you needed cjs in here for some
reason, you could theoretically add that.
It also adds a few add-ons.
So these come for free, theoretically.
One or two of them,
I think I added along the way.
But add on onboarding, you can mostly
get rid of once you start out.
It's a helpful little
tour as you go through.
Essentials, that seems important.
Chromatic is the visual
regression testing.
The kind of relationship
between chromatic and
Storybook is Storybook is a completely
open source, community-driven thing.
Chromatic is a company that will
definitely either on a free tier,
which we'll use today or for
money which I use, it work.
Let you run the visual regression tests
in the cloud and stuff along those lines.
They run effectively by
the Storybook team, right?
And so that's kind of
symbiotic relationship, and so
you get in that initial set for free.
Interactions is where you saw that
clicks and stuff along those lines.
Themes and this accessibility are stuff
that we're gonna kinda play around with as
we go through, cuz we're good people,
as well as contractually.
Need to have a high level of
accessibility compliance,
because of contracts and negotiations and
stuff along those lines and
themes so we can support dark
mode along the way as well.
Again, this framework thing will be
different depending on how you set it up.
If you run Webpack,
you will get a Webpack version.
If you're using Ember, you'll see Ember,
so on and so forth as we kinda go through.
I turned off telemetry only
because if somebody's watching
this course later,
I don't want them constantly nagged by,
the update is available cuz
they're on 8.09, right?
I would leave this on normally,
cuz updates are good, and
you should know about them.
But that's just a little tweak that I have
that I won't recommend that you follow,
but just for the longevity of
this course I've chosen to.
Next, we have the preview.ts.
The preview is that kind of UI that we've
seen, that little kind of Canvas area.
Any anything we put in this preview.ts,
if you need to add scripts for
Google fonts to the kinda head tag,
you can do it in here.
For whatever unique things that
you need for your application,
we will make some tweaks in here, but
this is kind of for any dependencies,
any look and feel, and stuff along
those lines happens in this preview.ts.
Also anything that you
want to kinda pass to
every single story throughout
your entire design system.
You can put in, here's kinda
the global dependency injection place.
There are other levels on the way down
that we'll see as we begin to implement
some stories.
But this is kind of, hey,
we need to inject the URL for
the mock server in test or
development and then have an environment
variable switches to production for
our production Storybook, right?
Any kind of that stuff that needs
to happen globally throughout
your Storybook happens in here as well.
Sorry, we got all that set up.
So then we've got this
.stories file here as well.
And we, like I said before,
are gonna support TypeScript.
So there's a little extra ceremony
that we need to do, but for
great advantage, right, and
we'll kinda see that in a second.
And so we will import some type as
one of the first things that we do.
So we'll put import type, and we're gonna
import two of them, Meta and is a StoryOb.
These are types that are kind of unique to
just getting us effectively IntelliSense.
We're doing the typescript in this case,
because IntelliSense is great, and
it will let us know if we pass the wrong
argument in one of these stories, so
on and so forth, and
that isn't Storybook React.
If you are using a different framework,
obviously,
it's gonna be a little bit different.
Bbut then what we can do next is
there is the individual stories,
and then for the collection of stories,
the kind of meta, right?
What is the name of this story?
What component are we using,
so on and so forth?
And those are shared
across all the stories,
you can override them at any given point.
So we'll also import our
very cool button component,
which is totally useful at
this point from./button.
Cool, and so we've got that in place.
So now, we have this Idea of
the meta that we wanna have.
So we have this const meta, and
that's going to then take a title,
which we're gonna start out as button.
One of the things that I will talk
about later is there are ways
that you can name
the titles of your stories
that influence kind of the organization
hierarchy of your Storybook, right?
And so much like something like Figma,
using a slash or
something along those lines will also kind
of create a hierarchy as we go along.
But we're gonna start out real simple and
not have too much of a hierarchy for
starters, and we'll say component is,
in this case, the button, right?
This is kind of the bare
minimum that you need.
I'm gonna say that it satisfies the type
of meta to make sure that I've actually
hit all the things.
And what this will do is,
as you add stuff to the meta for
this collection of stories,
it will make sure that you're actually
passing it in the correct options, right?
Especially, this is helpful.
If either A, mostly, you're coming from
a previous version of Storybook, and
you're like it used to be like this,
and you copy and
paste old code you're in
the process of migration.
This will help you see like,
that's not actually valid anymore and
tweak stuff along the way.
But we're not gonna do
any options just yet.
The other thing we need to do is we
export that meta as the default, right?
And if you're using just JavaScript,
you could theoretically do
export default in this object.
The only thing we need access to it for
is to make one more type,
which is the type Story.
And that's going to be
this StoryObject and
the type of button in this case.
Cool, All right, so
we've got all of this in place.
And so now, we've got our initial story.
One of the cool things about Storybook 7,
and
now 8 is that it uses effectively
just ES modules, right?
And so the ES modules that you
export that are not the default
export are your stories.
So the world's simplest story
in this case is we can do this
export const Primary,
we'll keep that the type Story.
And the reason we did this up
here is that it actually helps us
with making sure that we've
got the right objects in here.
So we've got that in place, and
let's just start with this.
And we're gonna have a slight problem that
we'll deal with in a moment, but this
is the world's simplest story, and we'll
see that it shows up now in our Storybook.
We no longer have the problem
of no stories in our Storybook,
cuz we have one of them.
And you can see the implicit hierarchy
here is, we've got this meta idea of
buttons, right, and
then we've got this primary button.
And if you export one called secondary,
right, default with a capital D, because
default with a lowercase d means things,
those will also show up here as well.
If you use camel case,
you'll get spaces for free as you kinda go
along here as well, and
we can close this pane for a little bit.
My big problem with the button
right now is that there's a button,
it's got nothing in it, all right?
And so just to verify our own sanity here,
if I went into this buttont.tsx and
said, Instead of self-closing,
we'll say /button.
Cool, and now you can see
that it is a button, right?
And that's all it takes to write a story.
Now, obviously, there's some nuance and
some things that we can add in here.
You'll notice that other
than passing meta,
the reference to the button, right,
there's not a lot of React in here.
And so one of the things I think
Storybook, it was beta and Storybook 6.
And then it was really reels and
Storybook 7 and really, really,
really reels in Storybook 8 is what's
called component story format.
What I'm writing in React looks almost
exactly the same im Svelte with
very tiny differences in so far that's
Svelte uses slots and React uses children.
I mean, just a very minuscule differences
between the framework show up in here, but
generally speaking, I don't actually
have to write the component.
This becomes theoretically
the props that I might pass
them will be args and
if I took a prop, a variant primary,
that is a prop that would get passed in,
right?
If I did, let's say,
such as I do style is,
Sure, once the object is it,
that part is it is passing it to React,
so you have to keep that in mind.
So backgroundColor blue, and that becomes
a prop that gets passed in, right?
And so like I said, completely agnostic.
And the powerful thing about it being
an object is you get a certain amount
of composability, right?
If you have one set of default
props that you wanna use and
you wanna use the spread operator,
it's just JavaScript.
You can use a spread operator,
you can do whatever you want.
If you need an escape hatch for some
reason, though, right, where you're like,
this is great, I wanna use this mozadime,
I have a reason that I actually wanna
write some JSX, or what have you.
You can use the component story format, or
you can use another option called render,
and render will actually just let
you kind of give it a function and,
It'll actually render that instead.
Why are you angry?
So then we have our button once again.
And so yeah,
all of that is kind of in place.
You can render,
you can use your work predominantly, and
especially in the spirit of
staying framework-agnostic.
We're gonna stick mostly with
the component story format, except for
the one or two unique cases where we
choose to render something as we go along.
So yeah, that is our kind of first story.
And again, if we wanted to write
a second story, right, export const,
a secondary button comes another story.
And let's say, for instance,
we wanted to use the, it's args children.
See, this is why
the TypeScript is helpful.
It's like, that's not how this works.
How you talk and
type at the same time, neat.
And so now, if you look,
we've got two stories.
I overwrote it in mind, so let's go back
and change that to the way that it was.
So that once got the child prop passed in,
this one doesn't, right?
And that is kind of the beginning steps.
The other thing that you'll see
as I open the sidebar here,
it has figured out that this does
take a prop called children.
One of the cool things for React and Vue,
I think the other ones you
don't get as much help here.
It'll definitely know about
any prop that you use, but
if you are using TypeScript or
JSDoc, either one is fine.
And you're using React or Vue,
it will either use React.gen,
or I think the Vue one is called Vue.gen.
I don't use Vue, so
I'm doing that from memory.
And it will do a static analysis of
the code that you're importing and
try to acquiesce what the props are,
right?
And so even if you're not using the props,
it'd be like, I saw the types that you
use for the props React component, and
it'll automatically fill this out and make
some best guesses on what controls to use.
In a little bit, we'll see how we can
customize those controls, everything along
those lines, but we do kind of wanna begin
to style this button up a little bit.
Cool, so you know what might be really
annoying that I don't wanna do?
You notice how my primary button still has
no content and my secondary button does,
right, it would be great if I didn't
have to type this for each and
every one of them, right?
So we can do that, and we'll do this a lot
more to great effect in a little bit.
But I think this begins to
set up the understanding of
the hierarchy of how
a lot of the settings.
So anything in that preview.ts
that we saw earlier,
that is across every story in throughout
your entire Storybook, right?
Anything I put in an individual story is
unique to that individual story, right?
This is great for if you wanna have
different props to different stories.
But for the things of, hey, I wanna pass
in just the same prop to all of these,
right, that's where this
meta comes into play, right?
So this will be shared across
every story in this .stories file.
Cool, so let's go ahead and we'll do that.
And so here we'll say args,
and we'll say that children,
button seems like a good enough name.
If somebody wants to change
their mind on this, they can.
That's why you have your
own copy of the repo.
Cool, and so now,
you'll notice this one I left empty.
This one has children, so it's gonna
work the way we think it's gonna work,
which is this one then goes
back up to the meta default.
This one, you can override that prop with
whatever you wanted along the way and
both work just as well, and
you start to get a sense of the kind of
the way that inheritance
works in Storybook as well.